# The Turing Way Book Dash Working Group Meeting
## Date: 31 January 2024


## About this call

The Turing Way Book Dash Working Group meets on a monthly basis 

### Code of conduct

\_The Turing Way\_ Code of conduct applies to this call. Take a moment to read this: [https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md)

* For any question or concern please reach out to Malvika and Anne (msharan@turing.ac.uk, asteele@turing.ac.uk).

### Useful links:

   * Book Dash Chapter and Governance[https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3231#issuecomment-1647578024](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3231#issuecomment-1647578024)
   

## Agenda January

   * Officially launch the Working Group, identify:
   * Chair: Esther
       * Chairing meetings
       * - Liason between the WG and the constitutional levels, communicate decisions etc
   * - Secretariat (other roles): will be split between Arielle and Emma
       * - ensuring all the topics of the Agenda are covered
       * - Notes are documented and uploaded in the repository (still need to decide if this should be an independent repository - we decided yes to the independent repo)
   * - invite other members (invitation link)
       * - Planning committee is self nominations
       * - WG is previous members of planning committee members as one of the key components
       * - Aiming for 5 people in the WG
       * - List of previous planning committee members. Several of these people are already engaged in WGs and so we don't want to over load them with another WG. We also want more people not Turing staff as EK and AB are turing staff.
           * - Susana Roman-Garcia ---> To be asked
           * - Carlos - may be too busy  ----> to be asked
           * - Andrea Sanchez-Tapia: part of the Translation and localisation
           * - Alden Conner
           * - Batool Almarzouq: part of Translation \& Localisation 
           * - Johanna Bayer
           * - Liz Hare: part of the Accessibility wg
           * - Saranjeet Kaur
           * - Winny Nekesa
           * - Alejandro? hasn't been a member of the planning committee
   * - Encourage men to apply to the planning committee
   * Agree on 2024 Book Dash dates: 
   * 1st edition: 13-17 May - (TBA: timeline, forms below) / ALE will book rooms at The Turing and add it in the calendar
   * 2nd edition: Will be reviewed in the next meeting
   * ~~Option A:  12-16 Nov (not a good time as it interferes with Research Data Alliance and the Carpentry Connect Con will take place between 12-14 November)~~
   * Option B: 04-08 Nov (slight preference from Arielle)
   * Option C: 18-22 Nov (too close to Xmas?) (slight preference from Esther)
   * Community Call 15 February  Presentation
       * A call with community members, open to everyone
       * Kirstie will give a presentation about governance 
       * Each WG gives 5 minute presentation
       * Bookdash WG should announce bookdash dates + forms ready for people to apply to committee/dash/hubs
       * Emma will do the presentation and lead slides
       * Ale to send the forms for the planning committee/local hub
   * Agree on frequency and date of the working group meetings
       * 1x month, 1 hour
       * Arielle: earliest has to be 12 UK time
   * Next meeting: review application form for the participants as some of the questions are not friendly for new people
       * Info for the local hub needs to be in there
       * Time zone sessions confirmed so people know that it will be convenient for them
           * American timezone confirmed (Arielle)
           * Should ask Shern/Saranjeet for planning committee for earlier time zones
   * Book Dash Nov2023 report PR review: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/pull/3503](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/pull/3503)
       * Should Kirstie/Malvika merge
       * Esther to check 
   * Transparency of their work - should we open a repo?
       * Infrastructure, accessibility, newsletter does have a repo
       * Have a bookdash repository for WG and planning committee
       * Emma/Ale to set it up
   * How they can allow others to see their work
   * Chapter in the Community Handbook
       * Need to include new information on the WG (next session / Feb)
   * Use of issue/discussing on main repoREADME, landing page (both in book and .github): 


### Timeline / Change dates to May 2024

   * Call for application to join the Book Dash Planning Committee and local hub start date: 15 Feb 2024 (3 months before)
   * Deadline to complete the Expression of Interest to Join *The Turing Way* Book Dash Committee: ~~31 March 2024 ~~1 March 2024 (plus community outreach)
   * Deadline for local hub - an expression of interest: ~~9 September 2023 ~~1 March 2024
   * ALE WILL UPDATE THEM / suggestion
   * Call for Applications for Participants: 24 July 2023
   * Deadline for submission: 11 September 2023 (anywhere on Earth) - (originally on 15 September 2023 but extended)
   * Decisions on the applications: Latest by 01 October 2023
   * Pre Book Dash Onboarding calls (2 x 1 hour): 30 October 2023. 
       * 9:00 am session: led Batool, Saranjeet, Emma, Anne, Alexandra
       * 17:00 session: Arielle, Anne, Alexandra
   * Pre Book Dash GitHub Skill-up (1 hour): May 2024, led by Batool Almarzouq? and Johanna Bayer?
   * Book Dash Contribution Sessions during the week: of  13-16 May 2024
   * The Turing Way community share-out: 17 May 2024. Additions to The Turing Way Book
*Curated from the DAY-5 share out notes*



## Notes

* Idea of the WG is to be strategic, whereas the committee is operational
* We need more gender diversity in the planning committee so that the WG can then also become more diverse. 
* Candidates for community outreach for planning committee membership:

    - Richard Acton 

    - Alejandro Coca-Castro 

    - David Llewllyn-Jones

    - Jim Madge 

    - Kalle Westerling

    - Andrea Sanchez-Tapia

    - Alden Conner

    - Batool Almarzouq

    - Johanna Bayer

    - Liz Hare

    - Saranjeet Kaur

    - Winny Nekesa

###  Decisions / Action Items

   * Invite Susana and Carlos to join WG in first instance - Esther (done)
   * There is a need for a more balanced ratio of genders in the Book Dash planning committee
   * Community outreach to previous planning committee members and specific Book Dash attendees for the next planning committee applications - to be divided up 
   * First Book Dash of 2024 will be 13-17 May 2024 
   * Ale to book rooms and send holding calendar invite to Book Dash WG, Malvika \& Kirstie
   * Emma, Arielle \& Esther to review forms (Ale will send them)
   * Action: speak to Shern re: Asian / Australian timezone session hosting - Arielle 
   * Action: review timeline (Ale)
   * Action: Create slack channel for the WG (Esther - done)
   * Action: Esther to review and approve Book Dash report 
   * Action: Emma presentation for 15 Feb - share slides
   * Action: Emma to start repo and put these notes on repo

